Now let's install Kiali on our cluster so we can visualize our service mesh.
Let's use this command to install and see all the add-ons that are provided in the samples folder.
We will talk about more of these tools in the observability chapter again.
As you can see, Grafana has its service account and a set of config maps and deployments,
and Jaeger is also installed from the add-ons, and we will talk about it in the upcoming chapters.
Then there is a large group of objects that has come with Kiali installation.
Then at the very end, you can see Prometheus also installed.
An important note is that these add-ons are not tuned for performance and security.
These are meant for only demo purposes.
So, let's check the status of our Kiali deployment.
Yes, it has been rolled out successfully.
And let's verify if the Kiali service is running.
You can use this command if you need to check if Kiali is running or not.
On your cluster.
And now with this command, we can start Kiali dashboard.
It will start a browser and land on the overview page.
In the address bar, you can see it is being served on the port 20001.
On the left menu, you can see different levels of visualizing your mesh.
And on the top left, you can change the type of filter that you can use.
On the far right, you can filter your whole mesh by time intervals.
And next to it, you can change how often you need your data to be refreshed.
Now, here are all the namespaces in our service mesh.
You should be able to see all that.
When you click this number next to the applications,
it will take you to the applications page, which is also accessible from the left.
Here you will find our four applications from Bookinfo.
You can always jump to some other namespace to see what's going on there.
If you go to the workloads from the menu,
you will see all our different deployments listed as workloads.
Now, let's check services.
There are no services, which is weird.
Sometimes it takes a while to load all the Service Mesh applications and objects.
Yes, they are here now.
And when we go to the Istio config menu, we will see nothing
because we actually don't have any Istio configurations for this name.
And the last bit, but a very powerful tool,
is the graph menu, where we'll have most of the fun.
We see this is also empty because there's no traffic right now.
Now, let's start creating some traffic to visualize here.
And here we have our traffic.
And here we have our traffic to visualize here.